#DESKTOP-->

Desktop mainly divided into three parts-

1.Computation
2.Storage
3.Network
#1.COMPUTATION :-

1.1 CPU-central processing unit It is the primary component of a computer that performs most of the processing tasks.often to referred to as the "brain" of the computer.

1.2 GPU-graphic processing unit It is a specialized processor designed to handle and accelerate the rendering of images, video and animation.It can handle many operations simultaneously.

1.3 DPU-data processing unit

1.4 TPU-tensor processing unit

#.SOC(SYSTEM ON A CHIP)-

A System on Chip or an SoC is an integrated circuit that incorporates a majority of components present on a computer. As the name suggests, it is an entire system fabricated on a silicon chip. The beauty of an SoC is that it integrates all the components on a single substrate. In semiconductors, a substrate is a thin film of silicon used to fabricate integrated circuits. In contrast to the traditional motherboard, SoC integrates the replaceable components onto a single chip, thereby reducing the size and increasing efficiency.

#2. STORAGE:-

1.primary storage: it is volatile. Primary memory provides very fast access to data,smaller capacity. e.g.RAM

2.secondary storage: it is Non-volatile ,Slower access,larger capacity: .e.g.hard disk,CD

#3.NETWORK:-

#3.1 Local Area Network (LAN):

A LAN covers a small geographic area, such as a home, office, or campus. It connects devices within this limited area.

#3.2 Wide Area Network (WAN):

A WAN spans a large geographic area, like multiple cities, countries. WANs can be public, like the internet, or private, like intranet.

#OPERATING SYSTEM(OS):

An Operating system is system software that manages computer hardware and software resources and provides common services for computer programs. it act as an intermediary between users and computer hardware

The most commonly used Operating System(OS):-

WINDOWS

MACos

LINUX

#NIC

A network interface card, also known as NIC or network interface controller, is typically a circuit board installed on the computer to connect to the network. It works as an indispensable component for the network connection of computers.

#CLOUD COMPUTING

Cloud computing is the delivery of computing services—including servers, storage, databases, networking, software, analytics, and intelligence—over the Internet ("the cloud"). This allows for faster innovation, flexible resources, and economies of scale.

#BARE METAL SYSTEM

A bare-metal system is a computer system that operates directly on the hardware without the use of an operating system. This means that the software running on the system has direct access to the hardware resources, such as the CPU, memory, and Input/Output devices.

In simpler terms, it's like running a car without a driver: the engine and other components are working directly, without any intermediary system to manage them.

#BLOCKCHAIN:

Blockchain is a decentralized digital ledger technology that securely records transactions across multiple computers in a way that prevents alteration or tampering. It operates as a chain of blocks, each containing a list of transactions. Once a block is added to the chain, it is difficult to change any information in that block without altering all subsequent blocks, which requires consensus from the network. This makes blockchain a transparent and secure method for managing and verifying transactions. It's commonly used in cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin but also has applications in various other fields, such as supply chain management, voting systems, and smart contracts. Some famous examples are

#1.ARM

#2.CISC[complex instruction set computer]-

it is a closed source like intel and AMD(advanced micro devices).It develop X-86 series under ISA[intruction set arichtecture] in 1978.

#3.RISC[reduced instruction set computer]-

it is a close source like ARM[Adavnce risc machine] .It has specific intruction,very fast and efficient.

#4.RISC-V-

It is based on RISC principles and develop in 2023 and which is a free open source. it also have a project called SHAKTI.

#5.ASIC:-

ASIC stands for Application-Specific integrated circuit. it's a type of integrated circuit designed for a specific application or function, rather than general puerpose use. for example, an ASIC designed for cryptocurrency mining is specifically built to perform the hashing calculations required for mining.

#VIRTUAL MACHINE

A virtual machine (VM) is a software-based emulation of a physical computer that allows multiple operating systems or instances to run on a single physical machine. VMs provide isolation, encapsulation, and resource efficiency, making them valuable for development, testing, and production environments. They come in two main types: system virtual machines, which emulate entire systems, and process virtual machines, which abstract individual applications. While VMs offer numerous advantages, including flexibility and efficient resource utilization, they also come with performance overhead and management complexity.

#KERNEL

The kernel is a computer program at the core of a computer's operating system and generally has complete control over everything in the system. The kernel is also responsible for preventing and mitigating conflicts between different processes.

#IP ADDRESS

An IP address (Internet Protocol address) is a unique string of numbers separated by periods or colons that identifies each device connected to a network. IP addresses serve two primary functions: identifying the host or network interface and providing the location of the host in the network. They are essential for routing internet traffic and ensuring data reaches the correct destination.

#ISP(INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDER)

An ISP, or Internet Service Provider, is a company or organization that provides individuals and businesses with access to the internet. ISPs offer various types of internet connections, including:

#DSL (DIGITAL SUBSCRIBER LINE)

Uses telephone lines to provide internet access. Cable: Uses cable television lines for internet service. Fiber-optic: Uses fiber-optic cables for high-speed internet access. Satellite: Provides internet access via satellite signals, useful in remote areas. Wireless: Uses radio signals to connect to the internet, which can include both fixed wireless and mobile broadband.

#DNS(DOMAIN NAME SYSTEM)

DNS stands for Domain Name System. It functions like a phone book for the internet, translating human-friendly domain names (like www.example.com) into IP addresses (like 192.0.2.1) that computers use to identify each other on the network.

#VPN(VIRTUAL PRIVATE NETWORK)

A VPN, or Virtual Private Network, is a service that creates a secure, encrypted connection over a less secure network, such as the internet. It allows you to access the internet as if you were connected to a private network, providing privacy and security.

When you use a VPN, your internet traffic is routed through a secure server before reaching its destination, adding a layer of privacy and security. However, it's important to choose a reputable VPN provider to ensure your data is handled securely and your privacy is protected.

#FRONTEND,BACKEND AND API(APPLICATION PROGRAMMING INTERFACE)

In web development, the terms frontend, backend, and API refer to different aspects of building and managing applications. Here’s a breakdown of each:

#1.FRONTEND

Frontend refers to the client-side of a web application. It encompasses everything that users interact with directly in their web browsers. This includes:

#2.BACKEND

Backend refers to the server-side of a web application. It involves everything that happens on the server and is responsible for managing and processing data. Key aspects include:

#3.API

API stands for Application Programming Interface. It is a set of rules and protocols that allows different software applications to communicate with each other. APIs can be used to connect Frontend and Backend

Together, these components work to create a complete web application, with the frontend providing the user experience, the backend managing data and logic, and the API facilitating communication between the two.

#THE 7 LAYERS OF OPI MODEL:-

Layer 1 :( Physical Layer) - The physical layer is responsible for the physical cable or wireless connection between network nodes.

Layer 2 : (Data-Link-Layer) - The data link layer establishes and terminates a connection between two physically-connected nodes on a network.

Layer 3 : ((Networking Layer) - The network layer has two main functions. One is breaking up segments into network packets, and reassembling the packets on the receiving end.

Layer 4 : (Transport Layer )- The transport layer takes data transferred in the session layer and breaks it into “segments” on the transmitting end.

Layer 5 : (Session Layer )- The session layer creates communication channels, called sessions, between devices.

Layer 6 : (Presentation Layer )- The presentation layer prepares data for the application layer. It defines how two devices should encode, encrypt, and compresses data so it is received correctly on the other end.

Layer 7 : (Application Layer) - The application layer is used by end-user software such as web browsers and email clients.

#SEMICONDUCOTRS

Semiconductors, also known as integrated circuits (ICs) or computer chips, are essential components of computers and other electronic devices.

#FUNCTION

Semiconductors process data, store information, and control electronic devices.

#Production

There are many 2-3 companies in the world that manufacture chips .e.g TSMC ,intel , samsung. And the machines used for producing chips is provided by ASML company

#ARCHITECTURE X-86 :- intel,AMD

CISC :- Intel,AMD

RISC :- ARM
RISC architectures emphasize a simplified and highly optimized instruction set, with instructions typically executed in a single clock cycle. By relying on a large number of registers and implementing efficient pipelining, RISC processors aim to achieve high performance and efficiency. However, this simplicity can lead to a higher instruction count and potentially lower code density compared to more complex CISC architectures.

RISC-V

RISC-V (pronounced "risk-five") is an open-source, RISC (Reduced Instruction Set Computer) architecture designed to be a flexible and extensible instruction set architecture (ISA). Developed at the University of California, Berkeley,its open nature, along with its base instruction set and extensibility, makes it an attractive choice for a wide range of applications, from embedded systems to high-performance computing. The growing community and ecosystem around RISC-V continue to drive innovation and adoption in various field.

VIRTUAL MACHINE

A virtual machine (VM) is a software-based emulation of a physical computer that allows multiple operating systems or instances to run on a single physical machine. VMs provide isolation, encapsulation, and resource efficiency, making them valuable for development, testing, and production environments. They come in two main types: system virtual machines, which emulate entire systems, and process virtual machines, which abstract individual applications. While VMs offer numerous advantages, including flexibility and efficient resource utilization, they also come with performance overhead and management complexity.

IP ADDRESS

An IP address (Internet Protocol address) is a unique string of numbers separated by periods or colons that identifies each device connected to a network. IP addresses serve two primary functions: identifying the host or network interface and providing the location of the host in the network. They are essential for routing internet traffic and ensuring data reaches the correct destination.

There are two main versions of IP address:

1️⃣IPv4 (Internet Protocol version 4): This format uses four sets of numbers ranging from 0 to 255, separated by periods

(e.g., 192.168.1.1). It provides about 4.3 billion unique addresses.

2️⃣IPv6 (Internet Protocol version 6): This format uses eight groups of four hexadecimal digits separated by colons

(e.g., 2001:0db8:85a3:0000:0000:8a2e:0370:7334). It provides a vastly larger number of addresses to accommodate the growing number of devices on the internet.

CLOUD SERVICES: 1.IAAS: 2.PAAS: 3.SAAS:

#INTRODUCTION OF AWS:

1.AWS SERVICES: 2.EC2-Elastic Cloud Computing 3.EBS-Elastic Block Store 4.Auto scaling 5.S3-Simple Storage Services 6.ELB-Elastic Load Balancer 7.IAM-Identity and Access Management 8.VPC – Virtual Private Cloud 9.DNS Route 53 - DNS 10.RDS – Relational Database Service

CREATE AN AWS ACCOUNT THEN GO TO CONSOLE WHERE YOU FIND EC2. THEN CLICK ON LAUCH INSTANCE, WHERE YOU HAVE TO ENTER THE NAME ATG{XYZ}. AFTER THAT SELECT THE OPERATING SYSTEM , THEN CLICK ON FREE TIRE ELIGBLE. NOW YOU HAVE TO CREATE NEW KEY PAIR , WHERE AS KEY PAIR ARE PUBLIC OR PRIVATE. ALSO SELECT THE .PPK THEN PRESS ENTER TO CREATE.DOWNLOAD THE KEY PAIR AND SAVE IT IN DESKTOP ALSO. NOW YOU WILL SEE THE RAM AND CPU WHICH IS GIVEN BY AWS. NOW ALLOW SSH AND HTTP. AFTER ALL THIS STEPS THEN CLICK ON THE LAUNCH INSTANC AND CLICK ON ALL INSTANCE. NOW YOU CAN SEE YOUR CREATED YOUR INSTANCE AND IP ADDRESS. COPY YOUR IP ADDRESS AND PASTE IT IN NEW TAB , YOU WILL FIND NOTHING BECAUSE THEIR IS NO SERVER PRESENT. TO CREATE SERVER INSTALL PUUTY. OPEN PUTTY WHERE FIRST GO TO SESSION AND ENTER YOUR IP ADDRESS. THEN GO SSH THEN AUTH THEN CREDITALS . WHERE YOU HAVE TO CLICK ON BROWSE WEHRE SELECT THE KEY PAIR FILE WHICH IS PRESENT IN DESKTOP. NOW GO TO SESSION AND CLICK ON OPEN YOUR VM IS CREATED. TO OPEN A WEB SERVER--- 1.TYPE ON GOOGLE HOW TO INSTALL WEB SERVER IN YOUR OS WHICH YOU HAVE SELECTED. 2.NOW DOWNLOAD ANY WEB SERVER LIKE APACHE2ETC. 3.FROM THAT INSTALL APACHE2 IN YOUR VM TYPE : >>sudo apt update sudo apt install apache2

---PRESS ENTER AND WEB SERVER WILL START INSTALLING---- 4.TO SEE THE WEB SERVER GO TO GOOGLE OPEN NEW TAB AND ENTER YOU IP ADDRESS . YOU WILL SEE THE APACHE2 WEB SERVER. -----------TO SEE HI ON SERVER --------------- 1.ENTER THE FOLLOWING COMMAND

cd{ENTER SPACE}/var/www/html/ ls YOU WILL SEE index.html ------TO REMOVE SUDO----------- sudo su --------NOW SUDO IS REMOVED--------

-------REMOVE THE APACHE2 SERVER -----------

rm index.html ------THEN ENTER-------- vi index.html ------PRESS {i} ------- ----------ENTER---------- hi ------NOW PRESS THESE KEY------- ctrl+c shift+";" wq -------PRESS ENTER ------- NOW GO TO GOOGLE AND ENTER THE IP ADDRESS YOU WILL SEE HII

USING CONTAINER's IN VM , USNIG DOCKER TO ADD NGINX SEVER IN IT AND TYPING HI IN WEB SERVER 1.First I login in my AWS account . Thne I created an instance . 2.In instance I make some changes , where I edit in network setting , where I added SSH , HTTPS , HTTP, ALL TRAFFIC , ALL TCP , ALL UDP AND CREATED AN INSTANCE. 3.Then I open puuty add the IP address from instance and add key pair file which I have downloaded when I creating instance. 4.After that I click on open , then my ubuntu terminal was opended , where I logined by writting ubuntu. 5.After that I have to install docker in my OS . 6.Then , I enter few command to install the docker COMMANDS ARE: curl -sL https://github.com/ShubhamTatvamasi/docker-install/raw/master/docker-install.sh | bash newgrp docker # this command will help us to use docker 3.docker ps # provides a list of the Docker containers on your machine docker --version # to check the version of docker which is installed docker pull nginx #TO use nginx server in container docker run --name docker-nginx -p 80:80 nginx #In a web browser, enter your server’s IP address to reveal Nginx’s default landing page ctrl + c #to stop the container from running docker ps -a #The output reveals that the Docker container has exited DETACHED MODE docker run --name docker-nginx -p 80:80 -d nginx #output is the container’s ID docker ps # provoide new information about container docker stop docker-nginx # to stop the container docker rm docker-nginx Building a Web Page to Serve on Nginx mkdir -p ~/docker-nginx/html # Create a new directory for the website content within the home directory cd ~/docker-nginx/html # Create an HTML file to serve on the server ls cd html/ 18.ls # will show index.html file 19.sudo vi index.html press {"i"} # help to insert in the web server hi # write whatever you want to write I write only hi ctrl + c shift + ; wq press {ENTER} docker run --name docker-nginx -p 80:80 -d -v ~/docker-nginx/html:/usr/share/nginx/html nginx # Linking the container to the VM

Also known as a hosted hypervisor, this type of hypervisor runs on top of an operating system as a software layer or application. Type 2 hypervisors are easier to install, configure, and use than Type 1 hypervisors, and are more user-friendly. However, Type 2 hypervisors are less efficient than Type 1 hypervisors because they negotiate resource allocation with the operating system. Examples of Type 2 hypervisors include VMware Workstation, Oracle VirtualBox, and Parallels Desktop
21.Primary and Secondary Memory Primary memory and secondary memory are two main categories of computer memory, each with distinct characteristics.

Primary Memory (Main Memory)
Volatile: Data stored in primary memory is lost when the computer is turned off.
Fast access: Primary memory provides very fast access to data.
Smaller capacity: Compared to secondary memory, primary memory has a smaller capacity.
Examples: RAM (Random Access Memory)
Secondary Memory
Non-volatile: Data stored in secondary memory is retained even when the computer is turned off.
Slower access: Secondary memory access is generally slower than primary memory.
Larger capacity: Secondary memory can store significantly more data than primary memory.
Examples: Hard disk drives (HDDs), solid-state drives (SSDs), optical drives (CDs, DVDs)
In essence, primary memory is used for active data that the CPU needs to access quickly, while secondary memory is used for long-term storage of data.
Computer Network Basic Network Concepts: Local Area Network (LAN): A network that connects devices within a limited geographic area, such as a home, office, or school. Wide Area Network (WAN): A network that connects computers over a large geographic area, such as a city, state, or country. Internet: A global network of interconnected computers and networks. Intranet: A private network within an organization that uses Internet technologies. Extranet: A private network that allows authorized external users to access an organization's resources. A) Network Components: Network components are essential for connecting computers to each other and to the internet. They enable communication and data sharing between devices. Here are some of the key network components:

B)

Hardware Components: Network Interface Card (NIC): A physical component that connects a computer to a network. It can be built into the motherboard or added as a separate card. Router: A device that connects multiple networks together. It directs data packets to their correct destinations. Switch: A device that connects multiple devices within a local area network (LAN). It forwards data packets based on their destination addresses. Modem: A device that connects a computer to the internet through a telephone line or cable connection. Hub: A simple device that broadcasts data packets to all connected devices. C) Software Components: Network Operating System (NOS): Software that manages network resources and communication. Network Protocols: Rules and standards that govern how data is transmitted over a network. Examples include TCP/IP, HTTP, and FTP. Network Drivers: Software that enables communication between the operating system and network hardware. These components work together to create a network infrastructure that allows computers to communicate and share data. The specific components used will depend on the size and complexity of the network.

Network Protocols: TCP/IP (Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol): The foundation of the internet. It defines how data is transmitted and received. HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol): Used for transferring web pages and other data on the internet. FTP (File Transfer Protocol): Used for transferring files between computers. SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol): Used for sending and receiving email. DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol): Automatically assigns IP addresses to devices on a network. Network Security: Firewall: A security system that controls network traffic. VPN (Virtual Private Network): A secure tunnel that allows users to access a network remotely. Encryption: The process of encoding data to make it unreadable to unauthorized users. Fundamental Concepts: IP Address (Internet Protocol Address): A unique numerical label assigned to each device connected to a network. It allows devices to communicate with each other.

DNS (Domain Name System): Translates human-readable domain names (like [invalid URL removed]) into numerical IP addresses. ISP (Internet Service Provider): A company that provides internet access to individuals and organizations. IP Versions: IPv4 (Internet Protocol version 4): The older version of IP, using 32-bit addresses. IPv6 (Internet Protocol version 6): The newer version of IP, using 128-bit addresses. It was introduced to address the depletion of IPv4 addresses. Other Network Terms: NAT (Network Address Translation): Allows multiple devices on a private network to share a single public IP address. MAC Address (Media Access Control Address): A unique identifier assigned to a network interface card. Network Adresses: A network address is a unique identifier assigned to a device on a network. It allows devices to communicate with each other by providing a specific location or address within the network.

There are three main types of network addresses:

1. Transport Layer - Port Address:
Purpose: Identifies specific applications or processes running on a device.
Format: A 16-bit number (0 to 65535).
Example: A web server might use port 80, while an email server might use port 25.
2. Network Layer - IP Address:
Purpose: Uniquely identifies a device on a network.
Format: IPv4 (32-bit) or IPv6 (128-bit).
Example: IPv4: 192.168.1.100, IPv6: 2001:0db8:85a3:0000:0000:8a2e:0370:7334
3. Data Link Layer - MAC Address:
Purpose: A unique physical address burned into a network interface card (NIC).
Format: 48-bit hexadecimal number (e.g., 00:11:22:33:44:55).
Example: Used for communication within a local area network (LAN).
How it works?
When a device wants to communicate with another device on a different network, it uses the IP address of the destination device. The IP address is then used to find the MAC address of the destination device, which is used to physically transmit the data. The port address is used to specify the specific application or process that the data is intended for.

Fun Fact
If you type the following link with ':80' already added to it, it will still open Google.com.
http://google.com:80

(Click on the link to try it!)
Why does this happen? Here's why:

Default Port for HTTP: By default, web browsers use port 80 for communication with websites that use the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP). Implicit vs. Explicit Port: When you enter a website address (URL) like "[invalid URL removed]", the port number 80 is assumed by the browser. It's like a shorthand. Explicit Port: If you explicitly specify the port number, like "http://google.com:80", the browser still understands and uses port 80 to connect to the website. So, both ways (with or without the port number) will successfully open Google.com in your web browser.

OSI Model: A Framework for Networking OSI (Open Systems Interconnection) is a reference model that defines how different layers of a network interact with each other. It provides a conceptual framework for understanding the various components and protocols involved in network communication.

The OSI model consists of seven layers:

1.Physical Layer: Deals with the physical transmission of data, including hardware components like cables and network interfaces.
2.Data Link Layer: Handles error detection and correction, as well as framing data into packets.
3.Network Layer: Responsible for routing data packets between networks.
4.Transport Layer: Ensures reliable delivery of data, including flow control and error recovery.
5.Session Layer: Manages sessions between communicating devices.
6.Presentation Layer: Handles data formatting and encryption.
7.Application Layer: The top layer that interacts directly with user applications, such as web browsers and email clients. Each layer builds upon the services provided by the layer below it. For example, the Application Layer relies on the services of the Presentation Layer, which in turn relies on the Session Layer, and so on.
While the OSI model is a theoretical framework, it provides a valuable tool for understanding network concepts and troubleshooting network issues.

Operating Systems: The Foundation of Computing Operating systems are the software that manage a computer's hardware and resources. They provide a platform for applications to run and interact with the computer's hardware.

24.Functions of Operating Systems: Resource management: Allocating and managing system resources such as CPU, memory, storage, and input/output devices. Process management: Creating, scheduling, and managing processes (running programs). Memory management: Allocating and managing memory space for processes. File system management: Organizing and managing files and directories on storage devices. User interface: Providing a way for users to interact with the computer. Major Operating Systems: Windows: A popular operating system developed by Microsoft, primarily used for personal computers and servers. It's programmed primarily in C, C++, C#, and other Microsoft-specific languages. macOS: A proprietary operating system developed by Apple for its Macintosh computers. It's known for its user-friendly interface and integration with Apple devices. Primarily programmed in C, C++, Objective-C, and Swift. Linux: A family of open-source operating systems based on the Linux kernel. It's highly customizable and widely used in servers, embedded systems, and supercomputers. Primarily programmed in C, C++, and various other languages. Some popular distributions of Linux: 25. Desktop Distributions: Ubuntu: A popular choice for beginners and experienced users alike, known for its ease of use and extensive community support. Mint: Another user-friendly distribution based on Ubuntu, offering a more traditional desktop experience. Server Distributions: Debian: A stable and reliable distribution often used for servers and network infrastructure. Red Hat Enterprise Linux: A commercial distribution known for its stability and enterprise-grade support. Other Notable Distributions: Arch Linux: A rolling release distribution known for its flexibility and customization options. Kali Linux: A distribution designed for penetration testing and security auditing. Android: A mobile operating system based on Linux, used by most smartphones and tablets. It's known for its open-source nature and flexibility. Primarily programmed in Java, C, and C++. iOS: A mobile operating system developed by Apple for its iPhone and iPad devices. It's known for its seamless integration with Apple's ecosystem. Primarily programmed in C, C++, Objective-C, and Swift. 26. Kernel A kernel is the core component of an operating system. It's responsible for managing the computer's hardware resources, handling communication between hardware and software, and providing a platform for applications to run. 27.Bare Metal System A bare-metal system is a computer system that operates directly on the hardware without the use of an operating system. This means that the software running on the system has direct access to the hardware resources, such as the CPU, memory, and Input/Output devices. In simpler terms, it's like running a car without a driver: the engine and other components are working directly, without any intermediary system to manage them. 28.Cloud Computing Cloud computing is the delivery of computing services—including servers, storage, databases, networking, software, analytics, and intelligence—over the Internet ("the cloud"). This allows for faster innovation, flexible resources, and economies of scale. In simpler terms, it means accessing computing resources from a remote location, often through the internet. Instead of owning your own hardware, you can rent it from a cloud provider. Think of it like renting a car instead of buying one. You get to use it when you need it without the hassle of maintenance or ownership. This can be beneficial for businesses and individuals alike, as it can reduce costs, increase flexibility, and improve scalability. Examples of Cloud Computing:

Cloud storage: Storing files and documents online, like Google Drive or Dropbox.
Cloud applications: Using software like Microsoft Office 365 or Google Workspace without installing it on your computer.
Cloud servers: Renting virtual servers for hosting websites or running applications.
29.Virtual Machine A virtual machine (VM) is like a computer within a computer. It's a software-based environment that simulates a physical computer, complete with its own CPU, memory, storage, and network interface. Think of it like having multiple computers running on a single physical machine. Each virtual machine can run its own operating system and applications independently, as if it were a separate physical computer. Here's a simple example: Imagine you're a web developer working on a project that requires different programming languages and environments. You could create multiple virtual machines on your computer, each running a different operating system and development tools. This allows you to isolate your projects and avoid conflicts between different environments. 30. Algorithm In simple terms, an algorithm is a set of instructions that a computer follows to solve a problem or perform a task. It's like a recipe for a computer, outlining the steps needed to achieve a specific outcome. Here's a real-world example:

Recipe: To make a sandwich, you follow a set of steps: get bread, add filling, put the top slice on.
Algorithm: A computer program might use an algorithm to find the shortest route between two points on a map.
Key points about algorithms:

They are a sequence of well-defined steps. They have a clear input and output. They must terminate after a finite number of steps. They must be correct and produce the desired result. Algorithms are the foundation of computer science and are used in everything from search engines to artificial intelligence. 31.Kubernetes Kubernetes is an open-source platform designed to automate the deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications. It makes it easier to deploy and run applications in a scalable and reliable way. Kubernetes is widely used for deploying and managing cloud-native applications. It is particularly well-suited for microservices architectures, where applications are broken down into smaller, independent components. 32.API (Application Programming Interface) API stands for Application Programming Interface. It's like a set of rules or guidelines that allow different software programs to communicate with each other. Think of it as a bridge between two applications, allowing them to share data and functionality. Here's a simple example: Imagine you're using a weather app on your phone. The app doesn't have its own weather data; instead, it uses an API provided by a weather service to get the current weather information. The app sends a request to the weather service's API, and the API sends back the weather data in a format that the app can understand. In essence, APIs make it easier for developers to create new applications and services by leveraging existing functionality from other applications.

Types of APIs and Examples There are several types of APIs, each with its own purpose and characteristics: Public APIs

Open to the public: Anyone can use these APIs to build applications or services. Examples: Google Maps API (2005): Allows developers to
